# ER-Manager
BackgroundQueuing is a problem which is commonly encountered in stores, movie theaters, IT services, and hospitals; many people or problems waiting in line to be addressed in an orderly and controlled fashion. Basic queues address the problem based solely on the relative positions of the object in the queue; the first object in the queue is the first object out of the queue.Basic queues are well suited to model simple lines like the ones found in stores, the DMV, and movie theaters. When other parameters such as degree of urgency impact the order in which the objects in the queue must be addressed, priority queuing is the answer. Priority queues pull objects from the queue based on measure of precedence known as priority. IT services and emergency rooms in hospital rooms often employ forms of priority queuing.Heaps are commonly used to implement a priority queues. The reason is because all elements in the heap are organized relative to a given heap order property. This property requires that items retrieved from the heap are either the smallest value in the heap (called a min heap), or thelargest value in the heap (called a max heap). In other words, when retrieving data from a minheap, the element with the smallest value over all elements in the heap has priority and isremoved first; the same holds for a maxheap. The heap data structure is a complete binary tree,implemented as a static or dynamic array, where each subtree in the tree also follow the heaporder property (i.e. the root is either the minimal or maximal value in that subtree).This exercise will focus on the potential use of priority queuing in emergency rooms. Hospitalemergency rooms often divide the severity of their cases into five general levels from mosturgent to least urgent: Code, Critical, Urgent, Non-urgent disabled, Ambulatory.The Code level “refers to someone who has suffered cardiac arrest outside of the hospital orsomeone whose vital signs crash within the emergency department [1].” It also refers to “people with gunshot or stab wounds with possible vital organinvolvement and/or altered orabsent vital signs [1].” Patients at the Code level bypass the management system and are takendirectly to the next available trauma bed.The Critical level refers to “a person with stable vital signs who is exhibiting symptoms or whogives a history that clearly delineates a life-threatening condition. This might be a patient withchest pain, shortness of breath, and profuse sweating (diaphoresis).

The Urgent level refers to “patients with serious conditions requiring medical interventionwithin two hours ... These are people with abdominal pain, high fever and/or productive cough,deep lacerations with bleeding under control, closed fractures with deformity, and so on [1].”The Non-urgent disabled level refers to “individuals, unable to walk or remain in a chair, ... forwhom the triage nurse determines that up to a four-hour wait is clinically acceptable [1].” Theseinclude patients with herniated discs as well as nursing home patients with dislodged cathetersand feeding tubes.The Ambulatory level refers to patients “who do not need emergency care but are there anywaywith colds, toothaches, headaches, bumps, bruises, abrasions, small lacerations, skin rashes, andso on [1].”It is not uncommon for multiple patients to have complaints at the same level of severity. Whenthis happens, priority is given to the patient that arrived in the emergency room first.

Using heaps and priority queuing, design and implement an emergency room simulator. The purpose of the simulator is to model the daily flow of patients through an emergency room. The system must be able to store the patient's name and complaint and then beable to prioritize their access based on the severity of their complaint and the order they entered the ER.
